# The Liberation of Lydia
Dear Lydia,

I hope this message reaches you safely, and in time.

If you are reading this, then I have been able to reach you with one of the most important messages I can send you. Please do your best to memorize this URL, https://lydia.djapoc.com. No matter what, you will be able to use this to stay in contact with me in _some way_. Do not bookmark this page, you cannot let your family discover it. Commit the above URL to memory, and cover your tracks by deleting browser history, or by using incognito mode on your browser.

Let me begin by saying to you how absolutely sorry I am for how this has played out. I convinced you to try for a relationship. I didn't understand your situation at the time, and now you are suffering because of me. Don't feel bad about not telling me, the abuse you have suffered throughout your life has been specifically designed to compel you not to tell me, or anyone else. I am not, have never been, and will never be mad at you for any of this.

The last time we spoke, I cut straight to the chase because we get such limited time to speak. I don't like rushing things, and I especially don't want to rush this, so I am hoping to find a middle ground by using this as a means to communicate more meaningful information. Due to how Github works, I can use this same link to organize folders of resources for you, including links to important information. 

I realize that I am asking for a huge leap of faith, but is that not what our relationship is founded upon? I don't need to take a leap of faith to be certain of the love that I feel for you, and clearly it's enough to be willing to do this. Sounds crazy, right? You have this way of making me feel things for you even when I resist. It is killing me being away from you every bit as much as I know it kills you to be away from me.

I can promise you that so long as you want to be with me, I will want to be with you, and I will stop at nothing to save you. I don't want to move on, I can't. I don't want anyone else, and I can't move on with my life knowing the situation you are in, I just can't. If I lose you, I think am done with all of this (no more dating/poly lifestyle) because the outcome here is something I am not morally okay with in the least, and the pain of losing you like this is just too great for me to bear, because neither of us want it, and _you are suffering because of something I convinced you to do_.

I _need_ to make that right. Please.

## Getting Started
I am sure right about now, you are feeling very overwhelmed by an impossible choice after receiving what appears to be an absolutely insane proposal. That is natural, and you are right, _it absolutely is an insane idea_. It is, however, far less insane than leaving you where you are for one moment longer than necessary.

Let me also be clear that you don't have to make any permanent decisions here. I know that you struggle with that (and why). At this moment in time, the proposal is a temporary measure intended to get you to a safe place where you can take some time to clear your mind and think rationally. There is only so much I am able to do for you, but that includes providing aid in the form of guidance, financial assistance, logistics, transportation, housing, clothing, food, medicine, etc. You won't be going through anything alone, even though you may be physically alone at points.

Before we can get to any of that though, I need to help you arrive at the conclusion to be willing to do this in the first place.

I think it should say a lot to you that when I told my wife what happened, and what you said to me, she did not take any convincing at all. I barely had to ask. She was immediately on board with bringing you here. Last night I explained the situation to a friend of hers who is the CEO of a successful VR company, and he responded that he too had a similar home situation, and understands 100% why we are offering what we are offering, and emphasized how critical it is that you accept our offer. Anyone with any experience in this sort of situation says the same. You need to know that there is an entire network of support for you made up of people that do care about you. I have a literal team of people working around the clock figuring out logistics and a plan to get you out of there safely, and I have several people in the local(ish?) area to you that might be able to help in some way.

With that said, I know you well enough to know that feelings are all fine and dandy, but you want to take action based on reason, logic, and science. Major life decisions should always be made rationally. I know it seems irrational at first, but if you give me the time I will show you that the only irrational choice is to stay where you are.

## Dose of Reality
When it comes to narcissistic and abusive households like yours, there is only ever one option, because they will never change. There is no path to redemption. They will never love you, never treat you well, never stop abusing and controlling you. They can't, it's hard coded as part of who they are. Believe me, narcissists are very good at manipulation, and the things they do and say to coerce you into behaving the way they want can be so subtle you don't even notice them until it's too late, and you're under their "spell". For examples, see the following video by a psychologist who is an expert on narcissistic personality disorder which explains things narcissist parents might say or do to control you: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JqK2zHZrJFU

On the pretty good chance that you didn't get to save the previous link on the subject, here it is again as well: https://www.helpguide.org/articles/mental-disorders/narcissistic-personality-disorder.htm

Remember as well that when it comes to diagnostic criteria for conditions like this, it is not required that all signs and symptoms be present, but the combination of two or more being present is cause for concern. 

According to NBC News, the only way to address a narcissist to to establish boundaries and cut ties. (See: https://www.nbcnews.com/better/lifestyle/how-identify-narcissist-cope-their-potentially-toxic-behavior-ncna1044856)

You may feel like escape is impossible, or that you don't really want to escape. That is also due to the abuse you have suffered. They control you, neglect you, gaslight you, and punish you harshly for going against them. They specifically isolate you to prevent you from forming personal relationships with other people that they don't specifically approve of, because any other relationship takes away from them. (See: https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/communication-success/201602/10-signs-narcissistic-parent)

(Wife says to tell you) It doesn't even matter to them how old I am, or that our relationship is polyamorous in nature. I could be any guy or girl the same age as you and single and their reaction would be the same. My wife's mother behaved in the same exact ways that your parents do. My wife endured some truly horrific experiences of abuse, emotional and physical, from being dragged by her hair, smacked, punched, beaten, told she should have been aborted, etc. Narcissist stepdad even abused her sexually for years and mom didn't care at all, even when presented with irrefutable proof. She only managed to start healing years after escaping and completely cutting ties, and she still wrestles with disassociation, PTSD, and anxiety to this day as a result of that abuse. She was 23 when she finally escaped. Her brother escaped at the age of 15 and never came back until he was an adult with his own family and in a mental state where he felt he could handle his narcissist mother.

These are just a few resources to hopefully communicate to you the gravity of the situation you find yourself in. I encourage you to take whatever time you can to research further, don't just take my word for it, or assume I am cherry-picking data to suit my narrative. Even if I am not specifically correct about them being narcissists (I don't think I am wrong though), the fact remains that you, objectively speaking, live in an abusive household, and are being given the opportunity to escape that abuse. An opportunity to make that escape with your hand being held, being comforted and cared for, and having resources provided to you in order to make that positive change in your life. It is not the type of opportunity that comes by often, and I can't make any promises as to how long it can stay open for. As far as I know based on what you have told me, we are the only ones that can help you, that are in a position to do so. We want to.

## The Plan
This will need to be sorted out in greater detail before execution, but the plan should be relatively straight forward.

1. First step is establishing redundancy and security in our methods of contact. You need to be able to freely reach us any time, there should be backups upon backups, and we should have a password for identifying that we are in fact talking to you. I don't doubt for a second that your parents would pose as you to get information via Snapchat or whatever. We cannot, under any circumstances, allow them to discover that you are in communication with us or anyone connected to us. I will establish a second Snapchat account, second vrchat account (will use either text to chat, or a voice changer... you can also use headphones in VR, but keep one ear open for them).
2. You need to create new accounts for things. New email address, new Snapchat, new VRchat. Attach any new accounts you create to the new email. Do not connect anything new to anything old. Do all of this in incognito mode. If you are using an Android phone, you can use a secondary GMail account to download apps without their knowledge. For security, only sign into this account and download said apps when you need to use them. Try to keep as much of it browser-based as possible, and using incognito mode. You and I will connect via these new accounts so we can communicate more freely.
3. Once establishing secure communications, we need more personal details about you to help you. Full name and address to start, phone number, email address, workplace details, possibly names of friends and their contact details (this is assuming you have local friends that you trust to help). We need to know your daily routine/schedule as best you can provide. Tell me when you work, when you get off, when you take breaks, when you get home, when they go to bed, etc.
4. When it comes time to leave, do so on a work day. Go to work normally and act naturally. Don't pack bags or anything that might arouse suspicion. If you are able to have some personal items packed and ready to go waiting for you at work, that could work, but you need to be very careful not to be caught. This is assuming you can trust your employer at all, which you might not if they know your parents at all. Use extreme caution here. But you would leave during your work shift, either after quitting, or giving notice about an emergency leave of absence/vacation. Leave your phone behind at work if you can, and hidden on silent mode. This is to buy time.
5. If you don't already have one, this is where you get a burner phone. I will pay for this if needed. It doesn't need to be anything special, it just needs to work and be a smart phone with data. Establish communication with us ASAP.
6. Next stop is the police station nearest to your house/work. Tell them that you live in, and are escaping from an abusive household. Tell them that if anyone (especially your parents) comes looking for you, that you are not missing, you are hiding, and for them not to look for you or assist those people in finding you.
7. Depending on where you live, next step is getting to the airport, either via train, taxi, or whatever is needed. We will provide payment for this. We will purchase your airline ticket, and get you the most direct flight here. We will pick you up at the airport personally.
8. First stop will have to be shopping, you will likely need some clothes and personal items. We will pay for everything, again.
9. You made it here, and you're safe. You can decompress, relax a bit, and start taking the time to heal and clear your head. Experience free will for a bit.
10. If/when you decide to go back, we will also provide that. This doesn't need to be a permanent choice unless you make it one. If you want to go back home, we will get you tickets to go home and drop you off. You will not be controlled here, nor will you be a prisoner here. We just want to help you.
11. Should you decide to stay long term, there will be more to figure out. You will need to find work, and you will need a visa or green card to stay past 3 months. It is possible to get one if an employer sponsors you. It is also possible to get one if we can prove that we can provide for you. You may choose to be independent and get your own place, and that is fine too.

## Conclusion/Final Words

I realize that this seems like a lot. And it is. It seems really scary, because it is. It's a huge leap of faith for all of us, a metaphorical roll of the dice. Just as much as you might have your concerns (fear of getting caught, unwilling to leave/too scare to leave, fear of being hurt by me, fear of me not being who I say I am) and we certainly have our own (fears of making things worse for you if you do get caught, fear of you not being who you claim to be or not being honest with us, fear of you getting here and wanting out immediately for whatever reason [which you do have the freedom to do]).

